Zhao.
You came home safely.
I'm relieved.
PICTURESQUE
Madam, what a good trick.
As the matron of the family,
it is my duty to worry about
the eldest daughter's marriage.
I will repay this kindness well.
Shou Gu!
-Zhang Ru.
-Shou Gu, you're finally home.
-Listen, it's her!
-All right, Zhang Ru.
Let's go and see Grandma first.
I prepared medicine for the illnesses
that grandmothers always have.
When I'm not around,
just prepare the medicine
according to the symptoms.
All right.
The weather is cold.
Get a thicker quilt for Grandma.
Besides that, smoked mugwort
is good for qi and blood.
You can use it during the day for Grandma.
All right, I'll remember that.
By the way, Uncle Shi Shu
brought Gastrodia and cat's claw
herbs from town.
I heard that
it was good for headaches too.
My father was being considerate.
-Grandma.
Grandma, you're awake.
Shou Gu.
I'm home.
It's good that you're home.
It's all my fault.
I've made you worry about me.
Fortunately, it was nothing serious.
Otherwise, I would never be redeemed
even if I die.
PICTURESQUE
Here, slowly.
I don't blame you.
That malicious woman knew I would
get messed up if I got concerned,
so she exaggerated it.
I got a headache and was confused.
I was afraid that something
might happen to you in Futing.
This hateful Wang Ying Xue.
While Shou Gu went to Futing,
she secretly signed the marriage contract.
Is it the Wei family?
That scoundrel.
I'll get the two scoundrels
to cancel the engagement now!
Grandma.
I'm an adult now.
Let me handle this.
I'll go back to the capital tomorrow
to put an end to this matter.
But you just came home.
Since I can't avoid it,
I should face it bravely.
First of all, it's to solve this matter.
Secondly,
didn't you want me
to see how vast the world is?
I'll broaden my horizons
once I go to the capital.
Shou Gu.
It's all my fault. I'm not in good health.
I can't protect you.
Grandma, please don't say that.
Like you said,
we can't always live
under the protection of others.
So this time,
let me protect you.
With your wisdom,
you can cope with whatever happens.
But remember this.
You must know when to stop.
Old Madam Cui. Look at this.
Alas.
Grandma, when we were young, Shou Gu and I
made Ji'an lotus root dumplings for you.
Do you remember?
Back then, you tried to cook the dumplings
but they blended into a paste instead.
Zhang Ru and I made it for you. Try it.
-Tell us about the taste.
-Try it.
Let's eat.
This time, it's not a paste, right?
Is it tasty?
Yes, it's tasty.
Young Lady Zhao.
These are what ladies in the capital wear.
The Fifth Master said
you should change into this.
I shall take my leave.
He is afraid that you will
go to the capital in plain clothes
and embarrass him.
Grandma's birthday is around the corner.
In previous years, we would listen to
"Plum Blossom By the Ge Stream".
I'm afraid we won't
have the chance this year.
Where does the music come from?
Maybe a passing musician
playing it for fun.
We've listened to the song.
Just treat it as if
you celebrated my birthday.
This song is meant to remind us
not to lose our prime era.
Grandma, you once said that
you're trapped in this house forever.
You haven't been able to
see much of the country.
Once I take care of
the matter in the capital,
let's do what
the lyrics of the song suggest.
We'll take the boat and pick flowers.
We'll travel through
the mountains and rivers.
I'm going too.
You can't leave me behind.
Come on. Grandma, Zhang Ru.
We made a deal.
Wait for my return.
-Come on.
-Sure.
ADAPTED FROM THE NOVEL "BLOSSOM"
BY AUTHOR ZIZI FROM QIDIAN CHINESE WEBSITE
CLOUD-LIKE MIND AND CRANE-LIKE EYES
Lord Song, are you not coming out yet?
A man broke into your house in the dark.
Why are you not afraid?
I know it's you, so I'm not afraid.
Thanks for the song.
And thank you for taking care of me
along the way.
I wanted to hide in the dark
and didn't want to disturb you.
You took my advice.
I'm surprised.
Well, it's rare to find a woman
with such an understanding
of the situation.
You're…
the most sophisticated woman
I've ever seen.
I'm not as sophisticated as you think.
I'm troubled by trivial matters at home.
But I don't have
the courage to be decisive.
You can say that I'm good
at helping others but not myself.
Which is why
I decided to learn from you,
to be vigorous and determined.
I'm returning to the capital
to take care of family matters.
Rather than being controlled by others,
it's better to strike first.
All right.
I wish you success all the way.
Thank you.
Lord Song, you didn't come here
just to compliment me, did you?
I came to bid you farewell.
I am leaving for Liaodong later.
I'm afraid I won't be back for a while.
Before leaving,
I'm returning this to you.
If you need help,
just send someone to look for me.
I appreciate your kindness.
But I want to solve it myself.
What flower is this?
You treasure it.
It's Nine-Layered Purple.
Just some wild flowers.
Don't bother.
It can withstand heavy blows.
It grows well on its own.
I believe it will grow well on its own.
But I also believe that
help will make it grow well faster.
DUKE OF YING'S RESIDENCE
So this is chess.
I learned something today, sir.
-Look at this.
-So this step…
Why suddenly there are
many new attendants?
They said there were
many things to handle,
so new people were coming in.
Where is Lu Zheng?
I think the Duke assigned him an errand.
I haven't seen him for days.
-Keep it.
-Let's keep it.
All right.
The Duchess is seriously ill
and has a poor appetite.
Serving her this greasy food
will make her vomit blood.
Are you looking to die?
I was assigned to serve the Duchess today.
I don't know what she likes or dislikes.
How's the Duchess's condition?
The Duchess said
the new medicine is bitter.
The staff in the kitchen are busy
making her favorite preserves.
She was willing to admit
her mistake and return to the capital.
I guess she must have
something up her sleeve.
Madam, you must be careful.
Shou Gu, you're staying here.
Why didn't you tell us in advance?
I could have told them
to make preparations.
I thought you two
discussed this in advance.
The wedding day is drawing near.
I should come back
to prepare for the wedding.
Besides, you found this good match for me.
This is also what Uncle Shi Shu wants.
We're a family.
You should have returned home earlier.
It's good, as Shou Gu has figured it out.
That's right.
But let me be frank.
Shou Gu has not been
staying here for a long time.
I guess she won't be able to adapt to it.
She'll get used to it. It's all right.
Don't stand here.
Let's go inside.
-Gao Sheng!
-Sir.
-Tell them to serve the food now.
-Yes.
Come on, bring the stuff in.
Madam, you're the kindest.
If even you think I am a liability,
then I have no way to go.
Now that you've returned home,
you should follow the rules at home.
You've become wild
after spending years on the farm.
It's time to restrain yourself.
I was stubborn and
mischievous before this.
I've come to my senses.
From now on, I will follow your teaching.
If that's the case,
let's start by copying "Women's Precepts".
Wang Ying Xue is such a vicious woman.
Young Lady Zhao just came back.
But Wang punished her
to copy "Women's Precepts".
Ten times!
We had freedom in Zhengding Farm.
Why did we come here to suffer?
Young Lady Zhao hasn't said anything,
but you have complained a lot.
You like the farm so much.
I'll send you back to the farm tomorrow
to serve Old Madam Cui.
No! I'll keep quiet then.
Who is it?
Young Lady Zhao, Mr. Zhao of the bookstore
told me to deliver the new paper
and inkstone for you.
Mr. Zhao also said that
Ms. Zhao should
read the contents carefully.
DUCHESS JIANG ILL; SERVANTS REPLACED
MR. SONG'S ATTENDANTS MISSING
It's news from Mr. Chen.
All this while, the servants in the
Duke's residence are all the Duke's men.
Why is it that
when the Duchess is seriously ill,
a large number of servants
in the residence were replaced?
"The silver sword cuts straight
into the blue sky."
"I was cast aside
when my purpose was served."
"All the merits done were in vain."
"And the revenge causes internal strife."
Song Mo is going to kill
his father and brother this year.
There's been a strange turn of events
at the Duke of Ying's residence.
Could it be that except
for the death of the Duke of Ding,
there are other reasons
why his behavior changed drastically?
I need to tell Mr. Chen to check it.
Who's there?
Zhao, it's me.
This is steamed sea bass.
This is ham and bamboo shoot soup.
During the family dinner,
I saw you had a few more bites.
You probably like it.
I made it.
It's tasty.
Let's eat together.
Your mother grounded me and
punished me to copy "Women's Precepts".
No one is allowed to visit me.
Aren't you afraid of being punished
by coming here?
Blame me for being incompetent.
My mother is dissatisfied with me.
That's why she is wary of you.
She's afraid that Father would be biased.
I copied some of
the "Women's Precepts" for you.
I brought some books too.
There are novels and songbooks.
Maybe it can relieve your boredom.
It's your first time here.
I know the most popular shops for rouge,
fabrics, and stationery in the town.
We can also rent a boat.
At that time,
we'll take a boat ride
and listen to songs.
That was before I was born.
But I've heard elders mention it.
I didn't know much.
Once you regain your freedom,
I'll go with you.
Zhao, you don't want to
take a boat ride, do you?
That's not it.
It's just that the old you
and the present you
are simply different.
The old me?
Someone's here.
Hurry!
Let's stop here.
I'm tired. I need to rest.
He's left.
I should take my leave then.
Goodbye.
This is weird. How did they know
you were punished?
This is Ming's.
She thought of it too.
She's thoughtful.
Ming's handwriting…
Wang Ying Xue
will definitely recognize it.
It's better not to trouble her.
I appreciate her thought.
This is from Mr. Wu.
Can we use it?
WOMEN'S PRECEPTS
His handwriting is clear and straight,
while the return of
the brush's tip is tactful.
But no matter how you look at it,
it looks like a man's handwriting.
You can see that,
but Wang Ying Xue
may not see that.
She won't check it in such detail.
Why is Mr. Ji's handwriting so crooked?
WOMEN'S PRECEPTS
Jian Ming knows I write
hiding the brush's tip.
He knows I write letters
with my left hand instead.
It's quite a good imitation.
That means we can use it, right?
Here's another one from Lord Song.
His handwriting looks crooked too.
I OWE MY GUIDANCE
TO MY MOTHER AND TEACHERS…
No, he got this character wrong.
Look at the character "qiu".
There was a missing dot in it.
QIU
My lady, is there anything wrong?
This handwriting is exactly the same
as what I write with my left hand.
To avoid writing
my deceased mother's name,
I remove the dot when I write "qiu".
Lord Song is such a good observer.
Does that mean we can use both of these?
There's no conclusion to this.
I say we should use both.
ORCHID AND ANGELICA FOREVER FLOURISHING
LIAODONG
The Jiangs are a family of heroes.
I've always admired them.
It's just that the imperial edict
has just been issued.
If they're given preferential treatment,
I'm afraid he'll be impeached again.
ZHU YOU TING, PRINCE QING
What do you think, Mr. Ji?
Lord Song is brave.
Your Highness cherishes his talents.
If Lord Song can be of
any help to Your Highness,
it's a win-win situation.
Wouldn't it be better?
Lizhen frequently harassed us.
His Highness has been busy
preparing for war.
Lord Song is a good-looking general
who became famous at a young age.
He must be highly skilled.
Lizhen grew up on horses.
They must be cavalries.
They're not these motionless straw men.
Twenty feet.
Great!
There are brocade clouds in the sky.
This is an auspicious omen.
It seems that the
Star of the General is here.
It's good enough to protect the border.
Lord Song, your reputation precedes you.
It's indeed true.
-Shi Chuan.
-Yes.
Send some men to repair
the houses of the Jiangs.
Take the medical officer with you.
Yes.
Yan Tang, why don't you stay here with me?
Train my army for me.
You can also take care of the Jiangs.
I can ask my father for a decree.
Thank you for your kindness,
Your Highness.
But I just received
an urgent report from the capital.
Mother is getting seriously ill.
I'm afraid…
Report!
Your Highness! Lizhen attacked again.
There are ten times the normal troops.
I'm afraid it's more than harassment.
Send orders to various teams.
Get all the soldiers and horses ready
and go to war with me!
Send the emergency report
to the imperial court!
-Yes!
-I'm about to return to the capital.
I'll deliver the emergency report.
Let's meet again
and have a good chat all night long.
Lord Song, I guess you owe me a favor.
You used me to please His Highness.
I wonder who owes me.
I don't think it's 20 feet.
My lady.
The situation in the Duke of Ying's
residence is so urgent.
Why are you still
in the mood to copy the book?
Haste makes waste.
We should cope with it slowly.
What we need most
right now is peace of mind.
A message from Mr. Zhao.
Lord Song sent an emergency report
and left the palace immediately.
But what if Mr. Zhao can't stop Lord Song?
If Zhao Liang Bi can't stop Song Mo,
all we can do is burn our boats.
Rise!
Lord Song, please stop!
-You're Young Lady Zhao's man.
-That's right.
She told me to stop you.
She said that if you
return home at this juncture,
you'll put yourself behind the eight ball.
My mother is seriously ill at home.
As her son, I must go back.
-Get out of the way.
-Lord Song!
I appreciate her kindness.
Lord Song!
FUNERAL TRIBUTE
THE DUKE OF YING'S RESIDENCE
Lord Song, you're finally home!
The Duchess passed away the night before.
We just set up the mourning hall. Lord…
LONGEVITY
Mo.
You're finally home.
ANCESTOR TABLET OF THE VIRTUOUS WIFE,
MADAM JIANG OF THE FIRST MARRIAGE
Before Mother closed her eyes,
she didn't even drink
the medicine I gave her.
She kept calling your name.
It's my fault.
I came back late.
Mother.
I'm home.
I am unfilial.
Lord Song.
The Duke has been heartbroken these days.
He's eager to see you.
Mother.
I'll be right back.
ANCESTOR TABLET OF THE VIRTUOUS WIFE,
MADAM JIANG OF THE FIRST MARRIAGE
Your Grace.
Father.
Looking at this comb
makes me feel like Hui Sun is still here.
She just went to admire the flowers.
She'll be back soon.
Father, I'm unfilial.
I couldn't see Mother for the last time.
There's something here. Take a look.
Do you recognize it?
Yes, I recognize it.
This is Grandfather's nephrite jade.
One was given to me,
while another was given to Han.
I didn't bring it with me.
haven't seen it for a long time.
I'm glad you recognize it.
The jade was found on Mei Rui.
Mei Rui?
Shoulder width, one and a half feet.
The maid who served Mother?
How did she get it?
Why don't you ask her?
Servant!
How did this happen?
Lord Song, just admit it.
Someone saw you having
an affair with Mei Rui a long time ago.
The jade pendant
must be your token of love.
Father.
I didn't do that!
When the Duchess died,
the maid committed suicide.
We thought she committed suicide
because of the Duchess.
But when the physician checked her,
she was already three months pregnant.
When she died,
she was holding this jade pendant.
When you returned
to the capital three months ago,
I didn't see you at all.
I thought
you were busy with your uncle's matter.
I didn't expect you
to do such a despicable thing!
Father, I didn't do that.
Lu Zheng has been
staying in the residence.
He can clarify it for me.
Besides,
there are other maids and nannies.
-I can confront them.
-You unworthy descendant!
You committed adultery
when your mother was seriously ill.
Are you not ashamed to make excuses?
Lu Zheng has been with you for ten years.
He will definitely speak for you!
And the servants too!
If your mother knows about this,
she will be heartbroken.
Father.
Father, trust me.
I didn't do that.
That's not true!
I'm going to teach you a lesson
for your mother!
Father…
I…
Your Grace…
Lord Song.
The Duke is mad
because he thinks highly of you.
Stop talking back.
Let the Duke vent his anger first
before you explain.
Stop talking to him. Servants!
Drag this traitor out
and punish him following the family rules!
-How's it going?
-Mr. Zhao failed to stop him.
Mr. Zhao failed to stop him…
-Is the door of the residence closed?
-Yes.
Why would they close the door after
welcoming guests to express condolences?
Something's wrong.
My lady, you're still grounded.
If that's the case,
should we still be involved in this?
We've done our best
by stopping his return home.
No.
I want to save him.
Tell Mr. Chen to make the last move.
I beg you, Grand General.
Let me take responsibility for my father!
I will not violate military law.
I will be loyal!
Everyone in the court knows that
as your father,
I rely on you
and Jiang Mei Sun.
In His Majesty's imperial edict,
he praised you as having
the character of Jiang Mei Sun.
Whose son are you?
RIGHTEOUS AND NOBLE SPIRIT
The body is gifted by the parents.
Take it if you want it.
If you do not want to see me,
I will never return to the capital.
I will never return home.
But at least tell me this.
Why did you do this to me?
Why?
Lock him up.
Song Mo committed misconduct.
This is intolerable.
Tell my eldest brother and
Third Brother to come tomorrow.
I'll remove his name from the family tree
and report this to His Majesty
so that His Majesty
will depose Song Mo as my successor.
If your relatives are still alive,
why don't you lower
your head and give it a try?
It's just like wearing colorful clothes
to entertain relatives.
I see…
I see.
Mother…
Go.
Lord Song.
You're awake.
Lord Song is awake.
That's great…
I'll do the remaining stuff.
Lord Song.
Young Lady Zhao.
Where's this?
Zhaowen Bookstore.
Fortunately, you detained Mr. Chen.
Otherwise, I wouldn't be able
to save you by myself.
Your master will die soon.
He'll be removed from
the family tree tomorrow.
You better understand the situation now.
I've prepared
the statement of confession for you.
You just need to
put your fingerprint on it.
Can you write?
You blockhead.
"Lure them away. Make a mess to save him."
"Meet at the corner of the gate.
Find ways to escape."
How about you come first?
Don't move!
Since the Duke of Ying wants us dead,
I'll take all of you together!
Hurry up!
This way! Go now!
-Hurry!
-Lord Song has run away!
This way! Catch them!
-Go!
-Lu Ming!
-Go now!
Lu Zheng!
Go! Lu Ming, go now!
Take good care of Lord Song!
-Lu Zheng!
-Go now! Hurry!
LURE THEM AWAY. MAKE A MESS TO SAVE HIM.
The father and son who sit together,
don't understand each other.
But someone who is neither
a relative nor an acquaintance
risked her life to save me.
You left the house in the middle of
the night to meet with a male outsider.
If your stepmother and
fifth uncle knew about this,
do you know the consequences?
This is urgent.
Since I wanted to save you,
I would have found a way to deal with it.
What's more, you saved me before.
Did I save you before?
I mean
you saved me before
when we were in Futing.
Now that Mr. Chen has returned,
our debt is over.
Your handwriting
is not as crooked as before.
It seems familiar to me.
IF YOUR LOVED ONES ARE STILL HERE
WHY NOT TRY HUMBLING YOURSELF?
You dare not look at me.
Young Lady Zhao, do you still remember?
During the Granary Festival,
at Guanghe Restaurant,
"The Tale of the Silken Robe"…
You've got the wrong person.
I don't like to watch performances.
You're seriously injured.
Stop imagining things.
I'll apply medicine again.
Gray hair…
It's her.
It's her all along.
She took the risk to save me
but refused to acknowledge it.
Why is she avoiding me?
What secret is she hiding in her heart?
Your blood has turned purple.
They were trying to kill me.
My internal organs were hurt.
So of course, the blood looks darker.
What time is it now?
It's 1 a.m.
I was unconscious for six hours.
I thought you would never wake up again.
I must go back.
How can you go back
when you're heavily injured?
They're going to remove
my name from the family tree.
The clan lineage is the most important.
His Majesty will depose my position
as the Duke of Ying's son.
Now that I'm in a deadlock,
I'd rather move forward
than stop at this juncture.
But you're heavily injured.
You should rest for at least a month.
I can't wait.
The lives of my guards are at stake
and my mother just passed away.
What I need now
is not recuperation.
I need to be able to hold a sword.
DUKE OF YING'S RESIDENCE
Young Lady Zhao was punished
by Mr. Dou Shi Shu under the family rules
because she went out to meet a man.
-It's me.
-Lord Song!
Young Lady Zhao!
It was me who was bold and reckless.
It was also me who was immoral.
It has nothing to do with Young Lady Zhao.
Mr. Dou, please punish me.
NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED
DURING THE MAKING OF THIS FILM.